Act 1: Prehistory, the Cold War, and the Space War

The planet Iammas is a small, blue green planet orbiting a pale yellow star, itself orbited by two large moons: The Twin Eyes of Loz, the Goddess of War. These moons, pale white and gleaming in the skies of Iammas, were the heralds of war and blood.

Their tidal patterns, complex and extreme, would flood areas, then open up new land routes. They would change the topography of whole regions in a short decade…and bring the many tribes of Iammas into contact with one another. The Iamman people were a lizardlike people, bipedal, tailed, with slitted eyes and aquatic bent. They could swim as well as walk, and their bodies were tough and flexible.

With spear and blowgun, the Iammans fought. The fought for land, for the Gods, for simple brutal pleasure.

With bronze sword and shield, the Iammans fought. They fought for food, for mineral wealth, for slaves

With gunpowder and lines of battle, the Iammans fought. For republics, for monarchies, for spices and for trade routes.

With the coming of their tenth millennium, the Iammans had formed into two coalitions, both poised to unleash the newest and most deadly weapons onto one another: Nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons.

The Northern Coalition and the Southern World Order stood in this uneasy peace, even as the first Iamman stepped on the Moon.

It was only a short time before the war denied on the ground began in space.

In the vacume between the planets, Iamman blood crystallized and starships were pulped by cannon shells and laser blasts. The weapons had changed, and the field of battle had changed, but the simple truth of war had stayed the same: Young Immans were the ones who fought and the ones who died.

It was then that two inventions came to the fore, inventions that would completely change the field of battle. One was the K.T Shield, a device that could ward off deadly energy attacks and make a ship invisible (for short periods of time) and the other was the Mass Drive, a device that could allow a starship to bridge massive distances in the blink of an eye.

With these, the SWO triumphed and for the first time in ten thousand years, the Iamman people were at peace.



Act 2: Colonization, Martial Law, The Collapse.

The first Mass Drive capable star ships were scout vessels, exploring nearby systems for life. They found rocks. Rocks and lifeless planets, incapable of supporting anything. But then they found them. A string of six livable planets, in six star systems, spread in a crescent constellation called The Arm of Kala, the Goddess of Peace.

The Outer Colonies were created…and war came once more. The Colonies seethed with rebellion, and the SWO reacted as anyone would expect: They cracked down. Rebellion was crushed and the Colonies were placed under martial law.

It was then that the Collapse came.

The Iamman planet, like many others, has a magnetosphere. And like many others, the magnetosphere periodically shifts its polarity, temporarily dropping and leaving the planet vulnerable.

Normally, this would be a non-issue.

However, the Iamman star happened to have the single largest recorded solar flare at exactly the same time. A wash of radiation bathed Iammas. Computers crashed, the network collapsed, countless terrabytes of information was lost completely. The economy collapsed. Communication collapsed. Civilization collapsed as well, as a massive rise in cancer deaths resulted.

Chaos. Panic. War. Nuclear fire blossomed as panicked military officers believed they were under attack and fail-safes put in place centuries ago went into effect.

The Iammas homeworld was reduced to a dark age…

And the Outer Colonies?

They.

Did.

Nothing.



Act 3: The Unification War.

While Immas fell into chaos and darkness, the Outer Colonies reveled in their new found freedoms. They expanded, they built new cities, new colonies, new ships…new weapons. The first conflicts were minor, over viable planets that surrounded the Six Colonies.

But the Iamman people could never balance on the knife’s edge of peace.

A new war was brewing. A violent conflict, between the Six Colonies, each one convinced that it was in the right, each one sure of its own ability to defeat its enemies. But they need Generals. They need soldiers. They need you.

